---
title: The Ising Model
date: 2022-04-11 22:30:00 +0800
categories: [Math & Natural Sciences]
tags: [xxx, xxx]
image:
  src: /assets/imgs/transformers/ising.jpg
  alt: "Ising Models"
  width: 800
  height: 500
math: true
published: false
---

We are going to look at statistical mechanics, and in particular, the Ising model. Statistical mechanics is very relevant to deep learning and artificial intelligence. Many models come from concepts in statistical mechanics.

Statistical mechanics is the study of systems that consist of a large number of microscopic entities, and it attempts to predict the macroscopic behavior of such system from statistics of those entities. It can be applied to study physical objects like gases and magnets. But, stat. mech. models 

Notations:
- U = energy
- N = particle number
- g(U, N) = multiplicity = number of accessible states


## Basics

My favorite example is a large array of coins. Each coin can be head (+1) or tail (-1).

The number of heads is a macroscopic property.

"half of the coins are head" corresponds to many many possible configurations/states. It is random/in equilibrium.

In contrast, "all coins are head" corresponds to just one state. It is a very structured configuration.


### entropy

Entropy is defined as the log of number of states.

**Definition** &nbsp;&nbsp; Entropy is defined as

$$
S = log g_N(U)
$$

### temperature

Temperature is defined as the derivative of entropy with respect to energy. 

**Definition** &nbsp;&nbsp; Temperature is defined as

$$
\frac{1}{T} = \frac{dS}{dU}.
$$


High temperature means an additional change in energy can only induce small changes in entropy. On the other hand, if a system is in low temperature, then an additional change in energy can bring a large change in entropy.








